---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/cosmology/gods-of-man/cragen/"}
---

Such as with a wise father and an inexperienced prince, Cragen is seen as the true mind behind the actions of the gods. Acting as [[Cosmology/Gods of Man/Zarathustra\|Zarathustra's]] trusted advisor, he ensures the new god does not misuse his power and position and cause more harm above what he has already caused. 

The God of Law and Order is the true strongest of the gods, with his strength outmatching even [[Cosmology/Gods of Man/Zarathustra\|Zarathustra]]. However, his zealous devotion to balance means he cannot head the pantheon without the risk of upsetting this balance. His adherence to order means even the slightest deviation needs to either be corrected or counterbalanced, and this neutrality has meant that under his guidance evil is still permitted to prosper and thrive. As without evil, good will grow too complacent, Without good, evil will cause havoc. What exists must have a natural opposite to tilt the scales. The Church of Cragen, known to the people of [[Geography/Avestra\|Avestra]] as [[Anthropology/Organisations/Religion/Churches/Cragen's Court\|Cragen's Court]], serves the dual purpose as the main law keeping force of [[Geography/Nostra Culpa/Nostra Culpa\|Nostra Culpa]] as well as the center of learning for law keeping and judicial studies across [[Geography/Avestra\|Avestra]]. 

Cragen's realm is known as the [[Cosmology/Realms of the Cosmos/The Great Gates/The Great Gates\|Great Gates]], a massive hall containing a doorway to each god's realm. It is there that Cragen sits in wait for souls to be brought fourth by [[Cosmology/Gods of Man/Hayata\|Hayata]] for him to judge. For every soul that is brought to him, Cragen examines every meaningful and meaningless action in that soul's entire history of existence, and weighs it as a good or evil action. Following this examination, Cragen declares if the soul goes to [[Cosmology/Realms of the Cosmos/Haev/Haev\|Haev]] or [[Cosmology/Realms of the Cosmos/Hel/Hel\|Hel]], and it is exact down to the very act of thinking about derobing your second cousin at the feasting hall (she isn't blood related, so surely it's okay, right?). Wrong. Cragen's judgement is absolute and impossible to debate, it is also instant and does not afford one time to complain as they are instantly transported to their appropriate afterlife.

However despite the seemingly stoic and calculated nature of Cragen, not all is known of him. He exudes an aura of mystery and uncertainty about his own origins. His realm the [[Cosmology/Realms of the Cosmos/The Great Gates/The Great Gates\|Great Gates]], as has been said, contains a door to every known realm as a way for Cragen to direct the departed to realms they're promised to as opposed to [[Cosmology/Realms of the Cosmos/Haev/Haev\|Haev]] or [[Cosmology/Realms of the Cosmos/Hel/Hel\|Hel]]. However, there is an extra door that no one knows anything about and Cragen is quick to shut down conversation regarding it. A huge door behind Cragen's seat that has come to be known as the [[Cosmology/Realms of the Cosmos/The Great Gates/The Divine Gate\|Divine Gate]], it is rumored to be where gods go when they die. Despite all the certainty that surrounds Cragen's portfolio, the god himself is a nonstop source of mystery that only begs one question: What are you hiding, Cragen?

#god_of_man