---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/cosmology/gods-of-man/fila/"}
---

The other half of the Children of Fate, Fila is the Avestran goddess of Motherhood. She governs all that pertains to birth, fertility and the welcoming of life into the world. Fila, along with her twin brother [[Cosmology/Gods of Man/Farib\|Farib]], is the only god to be 'born' and grow up to maturity. From the moment of her birth, Fila was idolised and fawned over by the other gods for her peaceful demeanor as opposed to her brother who would not stop crying for a millennia following their birth. When Fila was born, expectation was thrust upon her in the form of a prophecy foreseen by Eliphas the minor god of occultism. This prophecy, after being backed as truth by [[Cosmology/Gods of Man/Cragen\|Cragen]], outlined Fila giving birth to a god that would bring peace not only to the realms within which they stayed but also a mysterious unknown realm beyond theirs.  Why [[Cosmology/Gods of Man/Cragen\|Cragen]] knew of this and not someone like [[Cosmology/Gods of Man/Gyaan\|Gyaan]] concerned the other gods, however they knew it was folly to ask [[Cosmology/Gods of Man/Cragen\|Cragen]] about his secrets.

With this prophecy now proven to be real, the fawning over Fila increased as she was treated as porcelain. The only one who would not treat her any differently was [[Cosmology/Gods of Man/Farib\|Farib]], who would constantly sneak her out of her chambers to go play and  cause mischief much to the frustration of [[Cosmology/Gods of Man/Cragen\|Cragen]] who took on the role of Fila's caretaker until the prophecy is fulfilled. However as the two grew up, Fila would begin to see less and less of [[Cosmology/Gods of Man/Farib\|Farib]] and she did not know why. She still loved her brother, did she do something wrong?  Regardless, Fila had a role to play and she did not have the time to concern herself with her brother's lack of interest in her company anymore.

When Fila came to the prophesied age, the godly equivalent of a human turning 21, she proved the premonition correct and fell pregnant without the consort of another god. The outer realms rejoiced and celebrated as the coming of their saviour was near. As time went on, Fila grew from trepidation to excitement at the thought of raising a child, with these feelings maturing and evolving into her godly responsibility as the Goddess of Motherhood. As the years went on the pantheon prepared for the coming of this new god, and with each year of preparation nothing came. 

As the years turned to tens of years, and the tens of years turning to centuries the gods began to worry. Despite no one knowing the gestation period of a god, the time this was taking was not natural. This frustration left Fila disappointed and, as a perpetually pregnant god would be expected to be, prone to anger and outbursts of this frustration. No god could figure out the cause of this stagnant gestation, with strangely enough the only one hinting towards any knowledge of this being [[Cosmology/Gods of Man/Farib\|Farib]]. Whether this is just the God of Deceit playing another trick or a sign of something deeper is not to be known, but even [[Cosmology/Gods of Man/Farib\|Farib]] knows destiny is not so easily circumvented.

#god_of_man