---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/cosmology/gods-of-man/grumbar/"}
---

Before the [[History/The Convergence\|Convergence]], [[Geography/Avestan\|Avestan]] was home to countless cultures and peoples who worshipped their own gods and deities. Of all these cultures none stood out quite like the [[Anthropology/Ancient Races/Dwarde\|Dward]]. These people were diminutive yet stocky folk similar to modern [[Anthropology/Modern Races/Dwarves\|dwarves]] with one key difference. While [[Anthropology/Modern Races/Dwarves\|dwarves]] favour the mountains and the mines, the dward lived in the skies in mighty fortresses made from cloud magic. The skyborn [[Anthropology/Ancient Races/Dwarde\|dward]] worshipped their own pantheon which they called the Tempest Council, headed by their greater god Grumbar the Zephyr King. Grumbar was a supremely powerful god who governed the dward's specialty of cloud crafting, fashioning mighty fortresses, weaponry and armor from pure cloud. This form of artisanal creation made the dward a force to be reckoned with, as their cloud based arms were nearly impossible to defend against. The dward ruled the clouds uncontested for countless generations until their one weakness presented itself. 

This weakness came in the form of the [[Anthropology/Ancient Races/Nimbistlin\|Nimbistlin]], a breed of a goblinoid born able to manipulate something the dward had never faced before, lightning. The [[Anthropology/Ancient Races/Nimbistlin\|Nimbistlin]] claimed ownership of the skies in the name of [[Cosmology/Gods of Monstrosity/Zeed\|their patron god]], an ancient demon residing in the plane of air. Their claim to the skies sparked a war against the [[Anthropology/Ancient Races/Dwarde\|dward]] as the proud sky people refused to give up their generational currents. However this was a war they absolutely could not win, as lightning was a complete counter to the dward's key defense and offense. Using their advantage, the [[Anthropology/Ancient Races/Nimbistlin\|Nimbistlin]] and [[Cosmology/Gods of Monstrosity/Zeed\|their patron]] threatened to eliminate not only the [[Anthropology/Ancient Races/Dwarde\|dward]] but also the Tempest Council, as their existence relied on the existence of their creations. Faced with an impossible situation, Grumbar needed to decide how he could save everything he has built. After lengthy contemplation Grumbar went against everything he stood for and announced the [[Anthropology/Ancient Races/Dwarde\|dward]]'s surrender in exchange for peace, agreeing to leave the skies forever and never return.

With their surrender accepted the [[Anthropology/Ancient Races/Dwarde\|dward]] made their way to the land below, however with their guard lowered they were vulnerable to the one thing they should have expected. The [[Anthropology/Ancient Races/Nimbistlin\|Nimbistlin]] immediately betrayed their treaty and slaughtered all of the dward. The genocide of the sky people left the Tempest Council weakened and vulnerable to an attack from [[Cosmology/Gods of Monstrosity/Zeed\|Zeed]], the defiled deity that empowered the [[Anthropology/Ancient Races/Nimbistlin\|Nimbistlin]]. [[Cosmology/Gods of Monstrosity/Zeed\|Zeed]] went on to slay every member of the Tempest Council except for Grumbar, leaving him alive to forever remember his cowardice and failure. This forever cemented Grumbar's hatred of [[Cosmology/Gods of Monstrosity/Zeed\|Zeed]] and his kin, and while anyone could recede into a shell of melancholy and depression when faced with such a failure he was spurred forth by ire and readied himself for his revenge. Luckily for Grumbar, [[Cosmology/Gods of Man/Zarathustra\|an ambitious mage]] was about to make big changes to the cosmos and give him the opportunity to join [[Cosmology/Concepts/The Gods of Man\|a new pantheon]] and start over... and this time he will make sure his people will never be deceived again.

#god_of_man