---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/cosmology/gods-of-man/gyaan/"}
---

While the God of Knowledge's origins are unknown one thing has been clear to all who know of him, he serves the tireless pursuit of chronicling all knowledge that has ever graced the realms. One of the oldest gods, Gyaan has lived to see every event since presumably the dawn of time, and knows all of the past, present and on the rare occasion the future. His realm, [[Cosmology/Realms of the Cosmos/The Library of Infinite Apprehension/The Library of Infinite Apprehension\|the Library of Infinite Apprehension]], was home to all the knowledge he has accrued. It was open to all, mortal and divine alike, to peruse and observe in the effort to spread the power of knowledge. This open house was cut short when the [[History/The Convergence\|Convergence]] shook the cosmos, as the [[Cosmology/Realms of the Cosmos/The Library of Infinite Apprehension/The Library of Infinite Apprehension\|Library of Infinite Apprehension]] was severely damaged causing most of the information pertaining to old [[Geography/Avestan\|Avestan]] to be lost to time, with what little is left being supplemented by Gyaan's own memory.

Due to this grave loss of knowledge due to the folly of a mortal, Gyaan has since become obscenely strict regarding his library, allowing none but the gods themselves entry into its halls. Not even the members of Gyaan's church, the [[Anthropology/Organisations/Religion/Churches/The Sages of Gyaan\|Sages of Gyaan]], are allowed entry. They need to rely on their own archival efforts and excellent probing of the past to preserve the knowledge that was once lost. On a rare occasion Gyaan has convened with the Sages, however this is merely to direct them to where they can find knowledge themselves.

Gyaan stands to represent knowledge in its purest forms. Not simply as something one knows; but as an idea, an inspiration , a spark, secrets, forbidden knowledge, and discovery. The mind itself partially owes itself to Gyaan as without the knowledge he accrues how would we know anything at all? [[Cosmology/Realms of the Cosmos/The Library of Infinite Apprehension/The Library of Infinite Apprehension\|The Library of Infinite Apprehension]] does not just exist as a place to harbour information but as an idea that all thought can stand as equal while still paying respect to what can happen when one covets that thought. As knowledge is no longer, or rather, never has been free.

#god_of_man