---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/cosmology/gods-of-man/zeppeli/"}
---

For the eternity that anything has existed in [[Geography/Avestra\|Avestra]], and before that in Avestan, nothing particularly  'new' has ever manifested. There has always been nature, there have always been people, there have always been concepts such as love and art. However in the year 2792 AC the [[Anthropology/Modern Races/Gnomes\|gnomes]] of Gnottingham did something that, unbeknownst to them, would put into work the creation of a new god. The birth of something that no other god could fit into their domain. Rather than bother with the Amaranthine War, they invented. It started as a single wheel made of wood, dipped into a river, turning the tide of not just a grain mill, but the entire cosmos.

From that wheel, came the creation of iron, then came windmills, then came compasses and sundials. Finally, the straw that broke the camel's back, the [[Anthropology/Modern Races/Gnomes\|gnomes]] created a miraculous power capable of combusting at will to spawn phenomenal energy. This first spark did not just kickstart a new revolution for the [[Anthropology/Modern Races/Gnomes\|gnomes]], but for [[Cosmology/Concepts/The Gods of Man\|the Gods of Man]].

It started as a ripple through the Astral Sea, something the gods of [[Geography/Avestra\|Avestra]] had never experienced. The birth of [[Cosmology/Gods of Man/Fila\|Fila]] and [[Cosmology/Gods of Man/Farib\|Farib]] was tame, an experience that didn't leave much of an impression on the gods. This, however, was unknown. The ripple became a rumble, the rumble became a roar. Until finally, from seemingly nowhere, a new realm gloriously rose from the Astral Sea. Within this realm was the home of a new god, the God of Machines, Zeppeli. Cloistered in his towers of steel, attended to by his millions of drone-like constructs, Zeppeli ensured that his arrival was noticed. 

[[Cosmology/Concepts/The Gods of Man\|The Gods of Man]]'s power are fueled by the fundamental belief that mortals have in their portfolios and creations. However, that has only ever been the case for gods whose portfolios existed before [[History/The Convergence\|the Convergence]]. This new creation, industry, had a potential so powerful that the belief in it by the narcissistic [[Anthropology/Modern Races/Gnomes\|gnomes]] of Gnottingham self-replicated and skyrocketed Zeppeli's power to that of a greater god in the manner of a few hundered years. Zeppeli's gifts to the [[Anthropology/Modern Races/Gnomes\|gnomes]] grew their belief in him, and their belief and worship was in the form of further creation. This cycle ensured that Zeppeli held a position of importance amongst the gods, and those gods were more frustrated by this than [[Cosmology/Gods of Man/Zarathustra\|Zarathustra]]'s ascendance. At least he did it himself.

Zeppeli's entitlement didn't stop there, as he decided he too would be what they call a Mortal Maker and gifted the [[Anthropology/Modern Races/Gnomes\|gnomes]] and [[Anthropology/Modern Races/Dwarves\|dwarves]] of Chalma with a fantastic creation, a Zeppeli's Heart. This power source had the ability to fuel factories capable of creating life, this life being the [[Anthropology/Modern Races/Gearforged\|Gearforged]]. No more construct than man, the [[Anthropology/Modern Races/Gearforged\|Gearforged]] had souls and divine threads like all mortals, however were enslaved immediately to perform menial tasks. This was of no cause for concern by Zeppeli, for the work the [[Anthropology/Modern Races/Gearforged\|Gearforged]] did fueled the industry that gave him his power.

From his sudden rise to his godly ego, Zeppeli is a god hated even by the evil gods of the pantheon. Even [[Cosmology/Gods of Man/Silvannah\|Silvannah]], for his industry opposed nature to its core. However Zeppeli had an unlikely supporter, [[Cosmology/Gods of Man/Cragen\|Cragen]]. The greater gods had always been an uneven number, and the god of machine's introduction corrected the scales. Besides, mankind was falling behind and [[Cosmology/Gods of Man/Gyaan\|Gyaan]]'s children gave mortals the edge they needed, and gave Zeppeli a seat amongst the gods.

#god_of_man