---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/cosmology/gods-of-myth/neriah/"}
---

With [[Cosmology/Gods of Man/Hayata\|Hayata]] no longer the separate gods of Life and Death, [[Cosmology/Realms of the Cosmos/Haev/Haev\|Haev]] and [[Cosmology/Realms of the Cosmos/Hel/Hel\|Hel]] were without rulers. [[Cosmology/Gods of Man/Cragen\|Cragen]] could not oversee both [[Cosmology/Realms of the Cosmos/Haev/Haev\|Haev]] and [[Cosmology/Realms of the Cosmos/Hel/Hel\|Hel]] while still tending to his current duty, so he performed the first mortal ascensions since [[Cosmology/Gods of Man/Zarathustra\|Zarathustra]] rose to godhood. While judging a batch of souls, [[Cosmology/Gods of Man/Cragen\|Cragen]] was met face to face with the first mortal to be fully good without a single iota of evil present in her soul. This mortal was called Neriah, originally a cleric of [[Cosmology/Gods of Man/Fila\|Fila]], she lived her life fully and died saving a group of traveling merchants in [[Geography/Surulia/Surulia\|Surulia]] from a wyvowl.

When she arrived at the [[Cosmology/Realms of the Cosmos/The Great Gates/The Great Gates\|Great Gates]], Neriah was not offered to simply pass on to [[Cosmology/Realms of the Cosmos/Haev/Haev\|Haev]], she was offered the opportunity to ascend and rule [[Cosmology/Realms of the Cosmos/Haev/Haev\|Haev]] as its queen and as a paragon of goodness. She accepted, of course, as this would be a fantastic opportunity to help more people than she ever could. Thus, Neriah was raised to godhood as a new God of Myth and took her place in [[Cosmology/Realms of the Cosmos/Haev/Haev\|Haev]] as the Queen of Gold. With her newfound power she created the celestials, agents of goodness that could keep evil subdued across the realms and uphold the peace that Neriah stands for. 

#god_of_myth